_uniprojects/Ros Turtle Bot.md, before:

---
name: ROS1 - Trutle Bot
tools: [ROS1, Python, CV2]
image: ../Pictures/TurtleBot.jpg
description: A Maze navigating Robot using ROS1 with CV2 Library
---

# Turtle Bot

The TurtleBot is a system pre-built with ROS1, designed for tasks like autonomous navigation and object detection. For this project, the robot's task was to navigate a small maze and locate two doors—one labeled with a green dot and the other with a red dot. Using the CV2 library for computer vision, the robot identified the correct door to pass through based on its color.

Once inside the room, the robot had to search for a Cluedo character pictured on the wall. To identify the character, the system utilized Harris Corner Detection, allowing the robot to correctly determine the character's identity.

{% include elements/video.html id="aU5ADpcGbyY" %}

This project was particularly challenging as it was my first time working with ROS1. However, it provided a solid foundation, and since then, I’ve gained significant experience with ROS2 and have undertaken other ROS2-based projects.

Commit message:

added two more projects plus some templates for others

_uniprojects/Ros Turtle Bot.md, after:

---
name: BEng - ROS1, Turtle Bot
tools: [ROS1, Python, OpenCV]
image: ../Pictures/TurtleBot.jpg
description: Maze-navigating TurtleBot using ROS1 and computer vision with OpenCV.
---
# Turtle Bot and ROS1

The **TurtleBot** is a pre-built ROS1 robot designed for autonomous navigation and object detection.  

For this project, the robot had to **navigate a maze** and locate two doors — one marked with a green dot, the other with a red dot. Using **OpenCV (CV2)**, the robot identified the correct door based on color.

Once inside, it had to **search for a Cluedo character** displayed on the wall. To identify the character, the system leveraged **Harris Corner Detection**, allowing accurate recognition even in a small-scale, cluttered environment.

{% include elements/video.html id="aU5ADpcGbyY" %}

### 🔧 Approach & Implementation
- Developed ROS1 nodes in **Python** for navigation, sensor handling, and vision processing.  
- Implemented a **maze exploration algorithm**, combining sensor feedback with simple path planning.  
- Integrated **color detection** and corner-based feature recognition for object identification.  
- Debugged ROS1 topics, messages, and TF frames to ensure smooth communication between sensors and actuators.  

### 💡 Key Takeaways
- Gained hands-on experience with **ROS1 architecture**, including nodes, topics, and message passing.  
- Learned to integrate **computer vision with real-time robotics control**.  
- Improved debugging and problem-solving skills in a multi-component system.  
- Built confidence transitioning from ROS1 to ROS2 for more complex robotics projects later in my studies.

---
